Kafka Node Pools: What's next? (#383)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2023-08-31-kafka-node-pools-whats-next.md

This ensures that we provide good backward compatibility and can guarantee smooth migration.

In parallel to the work on improving the node pools, we are also continuing to address the remaining limitations on KRaft.
The migration from ZooKeeper-based Kafka clusters to KRaft will be the main turning point where everyone will have to start using the `KafkaNodePool` resources.
Already today, if you want to try the KRaft mode, you have to do it using the `KafkaNodePool` resources.
As Apache Kafka completes the work on the KRaft mode and completely drops support for ZooKeeper, everyone will need to migrate from ZooKeeper-based to KRaft-based Kafka clusters.
And as part of this migration, all Strimzi users will also move to use the `KafkaNodePool` resources.

#### Strimzi `v1` APIs

Once the migration to KRaft and node pools moves forward, we will also start working on the Strimzi `v1` API.
Evolving the APIs of the Custom Resources can be complicated.
However, once the ZooKeeper support is removed from Apache Kafka and Strimzi, we will be able to remove the ZooKeeper-related options from the `Kafka` custom resource definition.

> We will be also able to remove the Kafka options that moved into the `KafkaNodePool` resources such as the number of replicas or storage configuration.

Reviewer: This sentence was a bit confusing. 

```suggestion
We will be also able to remove from the `Kafka` resource those options that have moved into the `KafkaNodePool` resources, such as the number of replicas or storage configuration.
```

### More configurable options

The `KafkaNodePool` resource currently supports a limited number of configuration options:
* Number of replicas in the pool
* Roles assigned to the nodes in this pool
* Storage configuration
* Resource requirements (e.g. memory and CPU)
* JVM configuration options
* Templates for customizing the resources belonging to this pool, such as pods or containers

This may be expanded in the future. 
Certain options, like cluster-wide configurations for authorization or listeners, wouldn't typically be configured at the node pool level. 
However, other options can easily be added to the configuration at the node pool level if they offer value.

Would there be some use case to configure a different container image for each node pool?
Different metrics or logging configurations?
Tuning some of the Kafka configuration options that can be applied on a per-node level?

> If you have a use case in mind for any of these options, feel free to let us know through GitHub Discussions or Issues and we can take a closer look.

Reviewer: Discussions and Issues as links?

To cool down your excitement a bit.
The stretched cluster support in Strimzi will not make it possible to run Kafka nodes belonging to some clusters in completely different regions or even on different continents.
The Kafka cluster will still be limited by the latency between the different Kubernetes clusters.
But even with that in mind, it would add some value.
Some users prefer to stretch the Kafka cluster over multiple Kubernetes clusters like this to improve the overall availability.

It would also make it possible to migrate the Kafka cluster from one Kubernetes cluster to another.
You can move the nodes one by one until they are all moved then then you can just decommission the old Kubernetes cluster.
This all can be done while maintaining the availability of the Kafka cluster and without the need to have two clusters and use mirroring to migrate between them.

The stretch cluster feature is not something you should expect anytime soon.
We might look into it at some point next year.

### Conclusion

This is the last part of this blog post series.
Hopefully, over the five parts we managed to show you how to use the node pools and explain some of the motivations behind them.

> Give it a try and we will be looking forward to your feedback, raised bugs, feature requests, or PRs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do give them a try.
And don't hesitate to get in touch. 
We look forward to hearing your feedback and addressing any issues you encounter.
```
